Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll

CHAPTER I.
Down the Rabbit-Hole

Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into
the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or
conversations in it, "and what is the use of a book," thought Alice
"without pictures or conversations?"

So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of
making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her.

There was nothing so very remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it
so very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, "Oh
dear! Oh dear! I shall be late!" when she thought it over afterwards,
it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this, but at the
time it all seemed quite natural; but when the Rabbit actually took a
watch out of its waistcoat-pocket, and looked at it, and then hurried
on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she
had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a
watch to take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a
large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

In another moment down went Alice after it, never once considering how
in the world she was to get out again.

The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down a very
deep well.

Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what
was going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out
what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything; then she
looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with
cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and pictures
hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she
passed; it was labelled "ORANGE MARMALADE", but to her great
disappointment it was empty: she did not like to drop the jar for fear
of killing somebody underneath, so managed to put it into one of the
cupboards as she fell past it.

Down, down, down. Would the fall never come to an end? I wonder how
many miles I have fallen by this time, she said aloud. I must be
getting somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would
be four thousand miles down, I think, for, you see, Alice had learnt
several things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom, and
though this was not a very good opportunity for showing off her
knowledge, as there was no one to listen to her, still it was good
practice to say it over, yes, that is about the right distance, but
then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I have got to, Alice had no
idea what Latitude was, or Longitude either, but thought they were nice
grand words to say.

Presently she began again. I wonder if I shall fall right through the
earth. How funny it will seem to come out among the people that walk
with their heads downward. The Antipathies, I think, she was rather
glad there was no one listening, this time, as it did not sound at all
the right word, but I shall have to ask them what the name of the
country is, you know.

Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began
talking again. Dinah will miss me very much to-night, I should think.
Dinah was the cat. I hope they will remember her saucer of milk at
tea-time. Dinah my dear. I wish you were down here with me. There are
no mice in the air, I am afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that is
very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder. And here
Alice began to get rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a
dreamy sort of way, do cats eat bats, do cats eat bats, and sometimes,
do bats eat cats, for, you see, as she could not answer either
question, it did not much matter which way she put it.

Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a moment.
She looked up, but it was all dark overhead. Before her was another
long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down
it. There was not a moment to be lost. Away went Alice like the wind,
and was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, oh my ears
and whiskers, how late it is getting. She was close behind it when she
turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen. She found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging
from the roof.

There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked, and
when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the other, trying
every door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was
ever to get out again.

Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid
glass. There was nothing on it except a tiny golden key, and Alice's
first thought was that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall.
But, alas, either the locks were too large, or the key was too small,
but at any rate it would not open any of them. However, on the second
time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and
behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high. She tried the
little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted.

Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not
much larger than a rat hole. She knelt down and looked along the
passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw. How she longed to get
out of that dark hall, and wander about among those beds of bright
flowers and those cool fountains, but she could not even get her head
through the doorway.

CHAPTER II.
The Pool of Tears

Curiouser and curiouser, cried Alice, she was so much surprised, that
for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English. Now I am
opening out like the largest telescope that ever was. Good-bye, feet.
Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on your shoes and
stockings for you now, dears. I am sure I shall not be able. I shall
be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you. You must
manage the best way you can. But I must be kind to them, thought
Alice, or perhaps they will not walk the way I want to go.

Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall. In fact she
was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little
golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

Poor Alice. It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to
look through into the garden with one eye, but to get through was more
hopeless than ever. She sat down and began to cry again.

After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and
she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming. It was the White
Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves
in one hand and a large fan in the other. He came trotting along in a
great hurry, muttering to himself as he came, oh, the Duchess, the
Duchess, oh, will she be savage if I have kept her waiting.

Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she
kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking. Dear, dear, how
queer everything is to-day. And yesterday things went on just as
usual. I wonder if I have been changed in the night. Let me think, was
I the same when I got up this morning. I almost think I can remember
feeling a little different.

CHAPTER III.
A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale

They were indeed a queer looking party that assembled on the bank, the
birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close
to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.

The first question of course was, how to get dry again. They had a
consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite
natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if
she had known them all her life.

At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them,
called out, sit down, all of you, and listen to me. I will soon make
you dry enough. They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the
Mouse in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for
she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very
soon.

CHAPTER IV.
The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill

It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking
anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something. Alice guessed
in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid
gloves, and she very good naturedly began hunting about for them, but
they were nowhere to be seen.

Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about, and
called out to her in an angry tone, why, Mary Ann, what are you doing
out here. Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a
fan. Quick, now. And Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at
once in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the
mistake it had made.

CHAPTER V.
Advice from a Caterpillar

The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
silence. At last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and
addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

Who are you, said the Caterpillar. This was not an encouraging opening
for a conversation. Alice replied, rather shyly, I, I hardly know,
sir, just at present, at least I know who I was when I got up this
morning, but I think I must have been changed several times since
then.

What do you mean by that, said the Caterpillar sternly. Explain
yourself. I cannot explain myself, I am afraid, sir, said Alice,
because I am not myself, you see.

CHAPTER VI.
Pig and Pepper

For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and wondering what
to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the
wood, and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. It was opened
by another footman in livery, with a round face, and large eyes like a
frog.

Please would you tell me, said Alice, a little timidly, why your cat
grins like that. It is a Cheshire cat, said the Duchess, and that is
why. Pig.

Cheshire Puss, she began, rather timidly, as she did not at all know
whether it would like the name, however, it only grinned a little
wider. Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here.
That depends a good deal on where you want to get to, said the Cat. I
do not much care where, said Alice. Then it does not matter which way
you go, said the Cat.

In that direction, the Cat said, waving its right paw round, lives a
Hatter, and in that direction, waving the other paw, lives a March
Hare. Visit either you like, they are both mad. But I do not want to
go among mad people, Alice remarked. Oh, you cannot help that, said
the Cat, we are all mad here. I am mad. You are mad. How do you know I
am mad, said Alice. You must be, said the Cat, or you would not have
come here.

CHAPTER VII.
A Mad Tea-Party

There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house, and the
March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it. A Dormouse was
sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two were using it as
a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking over its head.

There is plenty of room, said Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a
large arm chair at one end of the table. Have some wine, the March
Hare said in an encouraging tone. Alice looked all round the table,
but there was nothing on it but tea. I do not see any wine, she
remarked. There is not any, said the March Hare.

Your hair wants cutting, said the Hatter. He had been looking at
Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was his first
speech. You should learn not to make personal remarks, Alice said
with some severity, it is very rude.

The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this, but all he said
was, why is a raven like a writing desk.

The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. I was not asleep, he said in a
hoarse, feeble voice, I heard every word you fellows were saying.

CHAPTER VIII.
The Queen's Croquet-Ground

A large rose tree stood near the entrance of the garden, the roses
growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at it, busily
painting them red. Alice thought this a very curious thing, and she
went nearer to watch them.

First came ten soldiers carrying clubs, these were all shaped like the
three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and feet at the
corners. Next the ten courtiers, these were ornamented all over with
diamonds, and walked two and two, as the soldiers did. After these
came the royal children, there were ten of them, and the little dears
came jumping merrily along hand in hand, in couples, they were all
ornamented with hearts.

When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped and
looked at her, and the Queen said severely, who is this. My name is
Alice, so please your Majesty, said Alice very politely.

The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her for a
moment like a wild beast, screamed off with her head. Nonsense, said
Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was silent.

CHAPTER IX.
The Mock Turtle's Story

You cannot think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing,
said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately into Alice's,
and they walked off together. Alice was very glad to find her in such
a pleasant temper.

Everything's got a moral, if only you can find it, said the Duchess,
and she squeezed herself up closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the sun. Up,
lazy thing, said the Queen, and take this young lady to see the Mock
Turtle, and to hear his history.

Once, said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, I was a real
Turtle. When we were little, the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, we went to school
in the sea. The master was an old Turtle, we used to call him
Tortoise.

CHAPTER X.
The Lobster Quadrille

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper across
his eyes. He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or
two sobs choked his voice.

Will you walk a little faster, said a whiting to a snail. There is a
porpoise close behind us, and he is treading on my tail. See how
eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance. They are waiting on
the shingle, will you come and join the dance. Will you, will you,
will you, will you join the dance.

Thank you, it is a very interesting dance to watch, said Alice,
feeling very glad that it was over at last, and I do so like that
curious song about the whiting.
